your four-week newbie the pro push-up
challenge starts with
arm circles they'll get your shoulders
ready to lift your body weight
stand up straight with your feet
hip-width apart
raise your arms out to the sides rotate
them forward in small controlled circles
for 10 seconds
now a little bigger for another 10 and
finish 10 more seconds with
big circles repeat all that only
rotating backward
you can also do the warm up one arm at a
time
one more to give your muscles a good
stretch the towel chest
press don't skip this part it's crucial
for push-up chest prep
grab a towel belt or even a t-shirt will
do
hold it behind your back and lift pull
your shoulders until you feel a stretch
at the front of your chest hold that for
30 seconds
relax and do a couple more times just
don't pull too much
safety first here we go get ready for
wall push-ups push-ups are one of the
most effective bodyweight exercises to
have in your workout
but you'll need to build some strength
first and work your way up
actually down from the wall to the floor
anyway
place your feet about a forearms
distance from the wall
with your palms against it start pushing
don't position your hands too high
it takes away the effectiveness of the
exercise your hands should be close to
your chest between pushes
keep your head lifted and look at the
wall while doing the exercise
once you're able to do 15 consecutive
wall push-ups
move your feet further away this will
add a challenge
and help you gain more strength next up
the diamond wall push-up okay let's take
some work off the chest
and get those triceps more involved this
version is a step up in difficulty
place your hands close together on the
wall in front of you
bend your elbows and lean your body
close to the wall
your forehead should go right into that
diamond between your hands
before you push away just don't touch
the wall with your face
ow be sure to keep your core engaged
your body shouldn't be all loosey-goosey
again you can start a forearms length
away
and keep stepping back to build strength
if you want to make it even more
challenging
yeah go ahead elevate your heels and
stand on your toes
this will get your calf muscles involved
too once you're able to do more than
20 of those in a row i'm moving you up
the ladder with
the one arm wall push-up it'll work one
side of your body at a time
and help you improve your balance we're
working with your chest
back shoulders and arms again let's
start closer to the wall to get you
comfortable
place either palm on the wall and the
other behind your back
bend your elbow to lean into the wall
don't shift your weight towards your arm
or rotate your torso
it's a common mistake people make that
can mess up your posture
just lean toward the wall as if you have
two hands supporting you
keep your body facing straight ahead if
the one arm version is too tough
you can try the wall side to side push
up
you place both your hands on the wall
just like a regular push-up
but instead of leaning into the center
shift your body weight first on the
right
and then on the left give me more than
15 of those in a row
and i'll level you up with the knee
push-up
we're focusing on your chest muscles but
also working your abs and shoulders
keep your knees on the floor you can
either pull your feet together or cross
them at the ankles
make sure your back is straight and bend
your elbows until you almost touch the
floor
or if you can't go as low as you feel
comfortable
this exercise speeds up your metabolism
once you've used it
remove it from your body weight workout
and add it to your warm up routine
it'll prepare your muscles for strength
training now don't push yourself too
hard
once it feels less challenging increase
the number of repetitions
doing this for just a minute will help
you burn eight whole calories
well it's something once you manage more
than 20 in a row
that's your green light to kick things
up a notch with
the incline push-up since you're
elevated
you need to squeeze your abs and protect
your back this exercise takes the
pressure from both your arms and
shoulders
and moves it to your chest find a sturdy
piece of furniture
and get into a straight arm plank with
your hands on that object
your body should form a straight line
your head hips and feet are
all aligned bend your arms and lower
your chest toward the object
just don't lower too much you'll be too
tempted to arch your back
as you get stronger increase the
repetitions to 15 or 20.
if you're adding other body weight
exercises to your routine
you can try an easier version of this
one with your knees
but if you're looking to add difficulty
move your hands
inward to make the support narrower
remember
closer hands equals more tricep work
once you can pull off more than 15 in a
row
we're moving to standard push-ups
they tone your shoulders chest abs back
and even glutes
but only if you do them right so avoid
these beginner mistakes
don't flare your elbows out to the sides
if you catch yourself doing that imagine
you're giving someone a light
shove you wouldn't lift your elbows out
or squeeze them to your ears
they stay closer to your body pay
attention to your posture
and avoid falling into the worm shape
move your body up and down as if you're
a rigid metal pole
you'll need to tighten your core and
glutes to do that
don't let your nose touch the ground
your chest should be the one
almost doing that don't spread your
hands too much
and make sure they're not too high they
need to be right below your shoulders
when you lower down to the ground
or in front of your chest if you're
doing the harder style for tricep
targeting
now since we're focusing on pumping up
those pecs and shoulders
don't do the push-ups too fast go down
and then back up slowly concentrating on
every movement your body makes
if you can't go all the way down go as
far as you can
and build your tolerance over time after
any workout
it's important to release the tension
from your body with a couple of
stretches
starting with overhead stretch
not only a good cool down it also builds
flexibility and gets rid of soreness
keep your back straight relax your neck
and shoulders
stretch your muscles by pulling your
elbow and extending your triceps
hold it for 30 seconds and then switch
sides
make sure you don't stretch further than
your arms can extend
and finish up with the doorway chest
stretch
stand in an open doorway with one foot
forward
place your hands out on the frame so
your elbows are resting just below your
shoulders
bring your chest forward and feel the
stretch
don't pull with your back or your head
keep your neck relaxed
do the same for 30 seconds and then
repeat with your arms a bit higher
for another 30 seconds rotate your
shoulders in between
to relax your body once you can do 20
reps of the regular push
up move on to diamond and one arm
push-ups on the floor
then continue to a decline push-up with
your feet on a bench
don't do this workout every day or else
you'll end up with a big
chest toned triceps and shoulders and
screamy little legs
two to three times a week is enough in
your first week
add more cardio to your routine it's
important to burn some
fat before toning your body and get your
metabolism running
do the easy ones at first like i showed
you when you're ready to move on
increase the reps before doing the
advanced exercises
as the weeks progress add more
bodyweight exercises
and alternate them every day for example
on day one
focus on your chest day two shoulders
and back
day three legs and abs you need variety
to your routine
so break your body up into sections no
not
literally and do a dedicated workout to
one muscle group
finally always do some stretches to the
muscles you just worked out
to release the tension hey good luck
with that
tell me how you're doing in the comments